       						editwin.txt
						07/09/93

WISP Vwang Edit Window Documentation          RELEASE NOTES

1. Overview

The vwang routine has been enhanced to support use of an "Edit
Window" in vwang screens.  The Edit Window supports word wrap,
and cut and paste operations.   The Edit Window behaves in many
respects like regular modifiable fields.  FACs are used to mark
the beginning and end of the window.  There is no pseudo-blank
processing done in the Edit Window.

2. Using the Edit Window.

The Edit Window is enabled by inserting FACs into the screen
map.  The FACs indicate the location and dimensions of the
window.  A FAC must be placed at the upper left corner of the
Edit Window and at the lower right corner.  The Edit Window
will be a rectangular area as defined by the FACs.  The FACs
are described below:

      Hex   Dec      Purpose

      0xfc  252      Mark the upper left corner of the window.
                     Allow upper and lower case data in the window.

      0xfd  253      Mark the upper left corner of the window.
                     Allow only upper case data in the window.

      0xff  255      Mark the lower right corner of the window

The text data in the Edit Window will be displayed as dim.
A box will be drawn around the window.  The user may tab into the 
window using the tab key, as with normal modifiable fields.

Four new videocap keys have been added to support the edit window: 

      Name           Function

      generic_mark   Begin marking.  Marked area will be highlighted.

      generic_copy   Copy the marked area into the cut buffer.

      generic_cut    Copy the marked area into the cut buffer and
                     delete it from the Edit Window.

      generic_paste  Insert the contents of the cut buffer into
                     the Edit Window at the location of the cursor.

These keys should be defined in the videocap file.  If not defined
there, the default mappings will be as follows:

      Name           Default keystroke sequence

      generic_mark   <control>-F <space>

      generic_copy   <control>-F c

      generic_cut    <control>-f z

      generic_paste  <control>-f v

The generic_newline key is used to insert a paragraph
separator into the edit window at the cursor location.  It is
used to keep the word wrap functionality from destroying
paragraph formatting on the screen.  The paragraph separator
is not passed back with the screen data.

The tab key moves the cursor to the next tab stop.  Tab stops are 
every five spaces in the Edit Window.

All other keys keep their normal vwang behavior.
                    
The Edit Window keeps track of data that has overflowed the window.
However, only the data actually shown on the screen will be passed
back to the caller.

